>> Mike: It makes sense to start this
story with the pitfalls of CSS, right?
So why do we not just use the thing
the browser already understands, CSS?
Well, first off, CSS programming, you're
working in a world of globals, right?
You have no ability to protect
yourself from believing rules and
to styling unintended things.
And this is something that like the whole
problem is on us as developers.
Right?
To stay as organized as we possibly can,
to sort of keep things
scoped just the right way so
that we don't have unintended
consequences as we build our styles out.
At least, in the traditional context,
CSS does not have variables.
Future generations of CSS
may have variables, and
there may be experimental things that you
can turn on in certain browsers today.
But you need to support
browsers today that don't have
the capability of doing this.
And this is a big part of any kind of
theming or any kind of customization.
The ability to toggle
between like a light style or
a dark style of a particular site.
That whole could benefit from being
able to perimeterize some of our styles,
to express it in terms of a couple
colors and a couple widths, and so on.
CSS is not composable in of itself.
Meaning that we have to go into
the HTML and apply a variety
of classes in order to get a composition.
Right?
In order to say this text field is both
Left aligned and it's caps.
It's all caps.
That might be two classes
that we have to apply.
But the CSS rules to themselves, we have
to be fairly explicit and oftentimes,
redundant as we define those over and
over.
And in terms of modularity primitives,
when we get into talking about
how import works because
CSS was not designed for
the kinds of rich applications
we've built today.
Two concepts are connected
that really shouldn't be.
And this concepts are how do you
break your files up as a developer
Into something manageable versus
what is the browser consume.
So we have this concept of
importing another style sheet
from within the style sheet.
But that involves going in
fact in search a new file for
the browser and ion CSS this is really
the only construct that we have
that gives us the ability to break
our styles up into multiple files.
Finally, over time, because we're so
limited in what we can do,
your styles are the part of your app
that starts to get really unmanageable,
irreversibly so,
where you find you're in a bad spot and
you've made some short sighted decisions
to get that product launch out,
but now, it's sort of a very brittle area
of where as soon as you touch something,
you can have unintended
ramifications elsewhere.
So that's what I call beating
into submission development.
And this is where you get a bunch
of exclamation mark importance and
negative margins.
And people are just
wrestling against this thing
to try to get the stuff to look
the way they want it to look, but
not doing so
with intent to design it that way.
They're just sort of like hitting it
until it's sort of in the right spot.
And that, over time, can end up with the
situation where you change one rule, and
then all of a sudden your
whole site shuffles around.
And that's not a fun place to be in.
So I hope to help provide
some guidance today,
as to how to at least put that off further
into the future, if not avoid it entirely.
So let's begin with my favorite
collection of CSS memes,
I figured I'd get these out of the way at
the beginning, otherwise, I'll be tempted
to litter them through out the talk,
and we'll end up going back and forth.
My favorite here is this Reddit thread
of me trying to learn CSS where
we end up with text that is formatted and
going off the screen.
So.